--- DONE ---

1) p. 7, l. 9 ==> "we need to clean up the implications somewhat because ..."  - rephrase and state it more formally. This "somewhat" gives an idea that the implications are deleted randomly.

2)  p. 9, l. 10 ==> "let m'(P) m'( rep) be a representative function of the equivalence relation m(R)". What are "m'(P) m'( rep)"? rep is a function, P is a predicate. Please describe clearly how are they interpreted in m'.

3) Regarding experimental results: what are "very large theories" (p. 13, l.26) and why were they left out in the evalution?

First, all the references to Figures and citations are broken.

Second, the text of the paper is duplicated.

the proof of Theorem 2 looks like an accidental copy of that
   of Theorem 1.

There is not yet a theorem for the Maxification transformation.
   Such a theorem needs to be added.

+ Page 9, Proof of Theorem 2:
  "Moreover, let m'(P)m'(rep) be a representative function ..."
  m'(P)m'(rep) is not a well-formed expression, there seems to be
  some typo here.

+ Page 13, Line 26:
  "(leaving out the very large theories)^4 For"
  should be
  "(leaving out the very large theories)^4. For"

+ Page 14, Line 46:
  "(labelled as ''other'' in the diagram)"
  should be
  "(labelled as ``other'' in the diagram)"

+ Page 8, Line 19-20:
  "Moreover, let m(R)(x,y) be interpreted by m'(rep)(x) = m'(rep(y)."
  I would prefer
  "Moreover, let (x,y) \in m(R) iff  m'(rep)(x) = m'(rep(y)."

4) Can you provide more detailed description of Fig. 18-22? It is not clear what are they actually representing and what are measure units?  Without those descriptions, I could not really understand Section 7.7

3. I've stated in my previous review that Figures 18-22 need more
   explanation. While the authors say that have addressed this
   issue I do not see where this has been done.
   At the moment I still find the figures incomprehensible. What
   do see on the x-axis, what on the y-axis? What does a cross
   at a particular position (x,y) indicate?

Finally, the layout of the bibliography is very hard to parse (there is a set of figures with one citation at the bottom of each page).

--- TODO ---

(1) The work must be better motivated.

Providing a motivation should not be difficult because there is various
preceding work that shows the development of special transformations and
calculi allows for better performance to be achieved. This could serve
as motivation for the research, which is indeed confirmed by the results
and most crucially include consideration of relations not previously
subject to optimisation.

(2) The related work section needs to be expanded and improved.

Preceding work needs to be referenced and described in the related work
section to make it more substantial and the paper more valuable. At the
moment the related work section at the end of the Introduction is only
one paragraph long and only refers to the chaining approach, with
incomplete references ([10] should also be cited here). Relevant
findings of [5] concerning the improvements achieved of the treatment of
transitive relations by the chaining approach along the lines as noted
in a previous review should be stated, so that the reader does not need
to look up these references.

References [3] and [7] deserve to be mentioned and their findings
briefly summarized. One reviewer also suggested that Torlak et al,
"Kodkod: a relation finite model finder", TACAS 2007 could be mentioned.
There may be other related work on automated reasoning tools that have
dedicated support for reasoning about relations that may be worth
mentioning.

Description logic and modal logic tableaux systems gives special
treatment to transitive relations through the use of a propagation rule
for transitive roles or transitive modalities rather than the standard
transitivity rule (structural rules). The standard transitivity rules
computes the transitive closure for a transitive relations, which is
avoided through the use of the propagation rule. This leads to significant
speed-up. Some references:

Horrocks & Gough (1997): Description logics with transitive relations. DL Workshop Proceedings.

Schmidt & Hustadt (2007): The axiomatic translation principle for modal logic. ACM Trans. Comput. Log. 8(4).

The present work develops alternative approaches for equivalence
relations and partial equivalence relations, total orders and strict
total orders, for which there seems to be no special calculi such as the
chaining approach. This could be observed to strengthen the motivation of
the work.

The following sentence does not add anything scientific to the paper and
should be omitted (alternatively, actual results should be given as
evidence, or references to such results).

"In personal communication with some of the authors of the other tools,
chaining-like techniques have not been deemed important enough to be
considered for implementation, and their preliminary experimental
results were mostly negative."

